It is really important to me that we
feel that we've deliberately
understaffed every project at the
company. If you overstaff, you get
politics. You get people working on
things that are further down the
priority list than necessary. That is
poison. It's wasteful. It slows you
down. It creates crust. You've been a
longtime COO at Ripling. Recently, you
moved into CPO, chief product officer at
Ripling. Something you talk a lot about
is that extraordinary results require
extraordinary efforts. If you want to be
in the 99th percentile in terms of
outcomes, it's going to be really
difficult. You got to sort of remind
people that if they ever find themselves
in the comfort zone at work, they are
definitely making a mistake. [music]
It's supposed to be really freaking
exhausting. You're a big fan of
escalating issues.
>> Fundamentally, the most selfish thing
you can do is withhold feedback from
someone. When you think a thought that
would help someone [music] improve and
you avoid giving it to them because it
would make you uncomfortable, well,
you're optimizing for your own comfort.
And it's fundamentally selfish. So many
people have teams that are not
functioning incredibly well. Teams will
always optimize for local comfort over
company outcomes. The purest form of
ambition and most intense source of
energy in the business is the founder
CEO. Every next concentric circle of
management beyond the founder CEO has
the potential to be an order of
magnitude drop off in intensity. That is
[__] dangerous. As an executive, as a
leader, your job is to preserve that
intensity at its highest possible level.
You've had a couple really interesting
experiences with your own startup.
>> We talk in Silicon Valley about never
quit, but that is complete absolute
venture capital [__]
Today, my guest is Matt McInness, chief
product officer [music] and formerly
longtime chief operating officer at
Ripling. If you don't know much about
Ripling, it's a massively successful
business, last valued at over $16
billion. They have over 5,000 employees,
and Matt has been instrumental to that
success. He's also got a really rare
combination of brutal honesty, a ton of
experience building a very complex and
very successful business, and being able
to clearly articulate what he has
learned really well. Matt shared a lot
of insights and advice that I've not
heard anyone else on this podcast share,
and I left this conversation feeling
that every leader needs to hear his
advice. A huge thank you to Albert
Scrashim and Sil Raman for suggesting
topics and questions for this
conversation. If you enjoy this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. It helps tremendously. And if
you become an annual subscriber of my
newsletter, you get a year free of 19
incredible products. An entire year of
lovable reflecript,
whisperflow, perplexity, warp, granola,
magic patterns, raycast, chapiard,
mobin, and stripe atlas. Head on over to
lenniesnewsletter.com and click product
pass. With that, I bring you Matt
McGinness after a short word from our
sponsors. This podcast is sponsored by
Google. Hey folks, I'm Omar, product and
design lead at Google DeepMind. Have you
ever wanted to build an app for
yourself, your friends, or finally
launch that side project you've been
dreaming about. Now you can bring any
idea to life. No coding [music]
background required with Gemini 3 in
Google AI Studio. It's called vibe
coding and we're making it dead simple.
Just describe your app and Gemini
[music] will wire up the right models
for you so you can focus on your
creative vision. Head to a.studio/build
to create your first app. This episode
is brought to you by Data Dog, now home
to EPO, the leading experimentation and
feature flagging platform. Product
managers at the world's best companies
use Data Dog, the same platform their
engineers rely on every day to connect
product insights to product issues like
bugs, UX friction, and business impact.
>> [music]
>> It starts with product analytics where
PMs can watch replays, review funnels,
dive into retention, and explore their
growth metrics. [music] Where other
tools stop, data dog goes even further.
It helps you actually diagnose the
impact of funnel drop offs and bugs and
UX friction. Once you know where to
focus, experiments prove what works. I
saw this firsthand when I was at Airbnb,
where our experimentation platform was
critical for analyzing what worked and
where things went wrong. And the same
team that built experimentation at
Airbnb built EPO. Beta do then lets you
go beyond the numbers with session
replay. Watch exactly how users interact
with heat maps and scroll maps to truly
understand their behavior. And all of
this is powered by feature flags that
are tied to realtime data so that you
can roll out safely, target precisely,
and learn continuously. Data Dog is more
than engineering metrics. It's where
great product teams learn faster,
[music] fix smarter, and ship with
confidence. Request a demo at
dataq.com/lenny.
That's data doghq.com/lenny.
Matt, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast. Thank you
for having me. I want to start with
something that I know is really
important to you, something you talk a
lot about that I don't think people hear
enough on podcasts like this, which is
that extraordinary results
require extraordinary efforts.
Talk about why that's so important, what
you think people need to hear. I mean,
this is a term that phrasing I actually
attribute to a friend of mine, uh, Dan
Gil, who's the chief product officer at
Carvana, which as a company also doesn't
get enough credit for how much of a tech
company it actually is. super
interesting and I think as a general
framework for me not just and a lot of
what I say with you today is not really
specific to product in any way um we
should actually talk about that it's
like the product function is an
instantiation of like the general
concept of management like being a chief
product officer is not that different
from being a chief whatever officer you
have to apply the same frameworks and
concepts to get people to achieve goals
together but one thing that is like
absolutely universal that I think we
honestly I think we forget get it in
Silicon Valley where a lot of people
don't sort of internalize it is that if
you want to accomplish something truly
extraordinary, if you want to be in the
99th percentile in terms of outcomes,
it's going to be really difficult. Like
it's going to be really uncomfortable.
And you got to sort of remind people of
that that if they ever find themselves
in the comfort zone at work, they are
definitely making a mistake. Like they
have definitely screwed up somehow. It's
not that uh it's not that an
extraordinary effort is sufficient to an
extraordinary outcome, but it is 100%
true that uh it is necessary. And so I
do use that framework as a sort of
guiding principle in my own leadership.
>> To make this even more real for people,
what are examples of moments that were
extraordinarily hard?
>> It is not about any sort of grand single
story. I think the truth the story is
actually told through a thousand little
things. And so for me, the story is told
through a thousand Jira tickets, not
through a thousand grand events. The
extraordinary effort thing is is is
an reminder that like it's supposed to
be really freaking exhausting. It's
supposed to be. So, like on Friday night
when you get hit with an escalation, on
Friday night when you get sort of, you
know, hit with a bunch of um new bugs
from someone in the engineering team
that you've got a triage, those are the
moments where great players and great
teams are separated from good players
and good teams. And it's so easy to say
this at a company like Ripling because
because we're winning like as a company
for all of our foibless and we should
spend time today talking about where
things are not perfect and not great but
the growth rate of the company on the on
the revenue foundation that we have is
extraordinary like really really
compelling and it it gives you as a
leader the air cover to get up in front
of your team and say hey guys I need the
last ounce of oil that you've got left
and if your company's not growing very
quickly if things aren't that great, if
your growth rate is 30% or 40%, you
know,
it doesn't feel as good as a contributor
in that business to like lean in and
give everything you've got on Friday or
Saturday or Sunday because you don't
know that it's going to yield much. And
so extraordinary
results, outcomes demand extraordinary
efforts,
but if there's no chance at an
extraordinary outcome, it's very hard to
get the extraordinary effort. And so I
like to remind people at Ripley at least
like it's so rare to have the
opportunity to be able to be a part of a
team where the extraordinary effort that
you do put in on Friday or whatever
whenever it is is actually contributing
to an extraordinary result. It's a it's
a it's a very special and rare thing and
it gives me a superpower as a leader
because I can lean on that when I you
know when I'm ringing the oil out of
somebody [laughter]
who's in the bored and tired zone. I saw
the same thing actually at Airbnb with
Brian Jesy. It always felt like things
were going great and like maybe we could
take a break after something we shipped
was killing it. And it always felt like
the opposite. It always felt like how do
we press the gas pedal further? How do
we go faster? How do we go bigger?
There's never like a moment to take a
break. I spent seven years at Apple and
learned under Steve Jobs, you know, when
he was the CEO, learned what we called
the death march, which is what we did to
the engineers. It was like as soon as
you shipped one version of the the
iPhone, like you were just immediately
thrown into the into the pit of building
the next one and there was no break. It
was just it was just relentless. And
talk about an extraordinary outcome at
the end of the day. Uh there is no
relief. It just like every in a
competitive market and and if the market
is valuable, it's competitive. No
question. If you leave anything on the
field, if you sort of leave a crack for
your competitor, like 100% chance
they're going to go fill that crack. And
so you have to be relentless. There can
be no relaxation of the organization. It
doesn't mean people can't come and go or
people can't take vacations or sort of
live their lives, of course. And you
can't it's not like people are human
beings. You can't grind the individuals
down, but the team as as a collective
group of people has to be sort of on the
ball all the time. There can't be a
break. And if you leave one, uh, you're
just begging for the slightly more
hungry competitor to come in and eat
your lunch. And you know, that's the
beauty of capitalism. [laughter]
Also, very counterintuitively and um,
maybe like the more optimistic
perspective here is when you do give
your team space to just twiddle their
thumbs, bad things start to happen.
Morale actually dips. In my experience,
people get distracted. They're like, "H,
what are we even doing? It's not
interesting. I find that keeping people
busy and motivated and fired up, even
though you may think they'll be happier
taking a like many week break and
slowing things down, I find they get
more morale actually goes down in those
exper moments.
>> Here's the so here's a management
framework that I use fairly often. Um,
as an executive, you don't know how to
get any decision exactly right. It's not
knowable. You don't know how much budget
to allocate. You don't know how many
people to put on a project. you don't
know how to set a deadline for when
you're going to ship something. But of
course, you have to set some default. So
you you make your best guess and then
you manage to that best guess and you
learn as you go because in software
development and in in business in
general everything's emergent. It's that
these are not things that are knowable
top down or a priori and so you take a
best guess and knowing that you're not
going to get the right answer. you need
to decide whether over steering or under
steering relative to your perceived
midpoint is um is better. And so let's
talk about staffing. Like when you staff
a project, is it better to overstaff or
is it better to understaff knowing that
you can't get it right? Well, it's
better to understaff. If you overstaff,
you get everything you just said. You
get politics. You get people working, I
think most importantly,
on things that are further down the
priority list than necessary. you have
like 20 things on a stack rank list and
like you know that you got to do the top
five, but the next 15 down it's kind of
ambiguous, but you've overstaffed the
project. So like the next 10 things down
are getting worked on before you even
know if they're necessary. That is
poison. It's wasteful. It slows you
down. It creates crust. And so it's very
clear that understaffing is less evil
than overstaffing. In this particular
framework, the advice is understaff
deliberately always. And then the wisdom
the wisdom element is to know not to
under understaff
and sort of knowing the difference
between those two things. And so that's
the way we work at rippling. Everyone is
constantly asking for more resources.
And of course where we can afford to and
where it's appropriate, new resources
arrive, but it is really important to me
that we feel that we've deliberately
understaffed every project at the
company. There's a previous guest, I
forget who this who this was. They use
this metaphor of they want their team to
be dehydrated to always be wanting more
water
and then eventually they're too
dehydrated and okay let's we need
someone to help. Interesting. Yeah,
there's a line along the lines of
extraordinary efforts. I want to make
sure I read because I think this is
really good. This may be a way to
summarize what you're saying that good
teams get tired and that's when great
teams kick the good team's asses. Yes,
this was a quote actually from Sil and
he found it from a from a women's um
basketball team coach and it is it is to
my point earlier about like you got to
run the engine at in in the red line at
all times because the minute you let
your guard down, the minute you slow
down, the minute you relax, the minute
you leave a crack for your competition,
the great teams are going to come in and
kick the good team's ass. And it's like,
you know, sports, I'm not a very sporty
guy, but sports analogies are sort of
irresistible because at the end of the
day, business is a game and none of this
matters. We're not going to carry it to
the grave. It's like you're here, you're
here to do this stuff because it somehow
fulfills you while you're on the planet.
And I love the sport of business. And I
find that that sports notwithstanding
the fact that I watch very little of it
isn't is a very that and military you
those are very ripe sources of parallel
concepts to apply in leadership. I find
also those most intense stressful long
nights are the moments you remember most
and remember most fondly back to when
you're building something. The key
though is that it has to go well as you
said if you are succeeding and winning
all of this is romantic in the end and
nostalgic. remember that time we built
this thing and worked late nights and
shipped this thing. If it doesn't go
anywhere, you don't you don't feel that.
So, I think that's a really important
component of this is you need to be
winning and succeeding.
>> I mean, one thing that I've learned from
Parker is Parker is our CEO at Rippling.
He, you know, uh he said you don't you
don't really learn from your mistakes,
you learn from your successes. And I
it's like you do, of course, and he
would admit you you learn a bit from
mistakes. But I do think that this is
sort of uh feel-good [__] that you
know it's like well you know you didn't
succeed but you know at least you
learned something. I've had failures
like when I look back at the nine years
I spent working on Inkling from day one
in 2009 until we sold that business to a
private equity firm in 2018 up the curve
of Silicon Valley coolness back down the
other side into obscurity. Like of
course I learned and grew a ton during
that time, but in now what I think is
six or seven years, I'm trying to do the
math, seven years coming up on at
Ripling, I've learned so much more
because I've seen success. Like I've
seen rapid, wild, crazy, offthecharts
success of the business. And uh it's
more informative. Like there's more to
glean from seeing how it's done right
than there is to glean from seeing how
it's done wrong. If I tell you you're
going to get on an airplane and one
maintenance technician has seen it done
right a 100 times and the other
wrong a 100 times but he learned from
his mistakes like but still hasn't had
any success himself. I mean give me a
break. There's not even a comparison
which plane you're going to feel more
comfortable on. And so I do think the
like learning from your mistakes thing
is a bit of a feel-good trope that
actually has very little substance in
reality. It's it's and it's why as an
early career product manager or it's
it's why like frankly at any stage of
your career when you want to learn you
should join a winning team. Like it's
cool to go and start a company at 22,
good luck to you. That the odds are not
in your favor. But the folks who when I
look at a resume and I see that
someone's joined um they were at like
really good companies when those
companies were super exciting and in
crazy growth mode. I'm like I instantly
want to interview that candidate because
I want to hear what they learned from
being part of a winning team. And that's
um that's sort of one of my go-to
heruristics when I'm looking at
candidate profiles. And I think it's an
undertold trope like sorry not an untold
trope. It's a It's a piece of advice
that I don't think people embrace enough
in the valley that like success begets
success and you should chase success.
Speaking of success and learning, you've
been a longtime COO at Ripling and the
reason you're here uh recently you moved
into CPO, chief product officer at
Ripling, uh which is very exciting and
very rare. I don't see a lot of CEOs
moving into product. Let me ask you why
that why did you move into into that
role? I feel like you've been killing it
at CEO. Maybe that's the reason. Be
careful what you're good at. And also
just what what are some surprises about
this about moving into product because a
lot of people imagine what it's like and
then you're actually doing it. The story
at Ripling is pretty interesting and um
I'll tell it because I think it explains
why, you know, why I'm making this
transition, but this isn't really about
me. I think it's sort of a pattern that
your listeners would find useful.
In general,
your best executives
are the ones that you can mostly toss
into any challenge and they will bring
order to chaos. They will fix the thing.
And I do appreciate the terms that
people have used at Ripling for me, you
know, talking about McInness's injured
birds where at any given moment some
function is in disarray or in jeopardy
and I go and focus very carefully on
that function to get it back in order.
batting 800 maybe, you know, like not
always wild success, but
I did that any everywhere except R&D. I
would be wor I would, you know, think
about helping out with components of the
sales organization like our channel team
or I spent time, you know, building out
the recruiting function a few times when
it needed to be sort of uh rethought in
response to our growth. Um, and but it
never R&D. And so I I sort of I I would
have my feet up on the table looking out
across the floor at this dumpster fire
off in the distance just sort of
emitting smoke and wondering if someone
was going to go in and deal with that.
And you know the smoke takes various
forms and when you're growing as quickly
as Rippling is growing it's not always
something that necessarily even impacts
customers but it's the sort of thing
where you're like [__] that that
architecture is not right or this you
know they're not measuring adoption
correctly. From the outside, I actually
had quite a few criticisms that I could
blob in. And um what happened at Ripling
was um we made some hiring mistakes. I
think the folks that we had in those
roles would agree that they weren't the
right people. We had a hiring mistake in
engineering leadership where the product
leader at the time had to sort of run
engineering. We subsequently had a
mistake in uh in product hiring and uh a
lot of us had to sort of pitch in and
Parker and I sort of stared at each
other uh through two years of this kind
of disarray or this chaos or this agony
of of things and just never really
having good executive leadership over
both engineering and product at the same
time. And um I remember Parker sort of
Parker sort of slumped down in his seat
and said, "Ah, [__] I have to run
another search." And I said, "No, like
the gig's up. I'm going to go do it."
and he really sprung up in his seat.
He's like, "Really? Like, you'll go do
that?" I'm like, "Dude, this is what
this is what the business needs." And so
that's what I did. And that really
started about a year ago in sort of I
realized I was going to do it and
expressed that to Parker in December. I
really took it on in January of 25. And
so it's been 11 months of learning. um
jumping into the product role when the
product function itself although staffed
with really talented people wildly under
understaffed and without a single
spiritual leader on top of it to drive
consistency and process excellence had
become locally optimized but globally
incoherent and if you know Conway's law
you are destined to ship your org chart
and so with a locally optimized as
globally incoherent team. You had a
locally optimized, globally incoherent
product experience that needed to be
resolved. And so my efforts over the
last 11 months have been to establish,
you know, like greater clarity in terms
of how we do things around here, better
process, better, you know, general
leadership, uh, hiring and firing. I
mean just doing the sort of clean up on
aisle 3 that needed to be done even
though a lot again a lot of the people
in the in the team were quite talented
and doing an excellent job of managing
their specific domains. Jumping into the
product role has been
like quite eye opening. Um,
I feel a little bashful
about the naivity
of my view from the outside a year ago.
Product teams have a hierarchy of needs
and we like to sort of point at the
failures to meet
elements of that hierarchy higher up the
triangle
and sort of impugn the failure of that
organization for not as an example
measuring adoption metrics very
carefully and not closely tracking those
metrics as a means by which to drive
execution. When I jumped in, I was like,
man, you know, we need to establish some
some basic standards for test coverage.
We need to establish some basic
standards for how we do what I call a
factory inspection on a product once
it's ready to roll off the assembly
line. Do we have a checklist for what we
call product quality? And what does
product quality mean? Those basic things
weren't there. And so, the idea that we
should be spending time measuring
adoption metrics is absolute insanity.
you're skipping a lot of steps between
here and there. And so we have made
great strides and I think it's
translating to product quality
improvements for our customers. But I
feel as I said a little dumb for the way
I was thinking about it before I jumped
into the deep end. There is just no
excuse as an executive for sitting
outside of the mess and thinking you
know the answers. It's a it's a cardinal
sin as an executive to do that. you need
to go and see. You need to be in the
boiler room. You need to study the
system bottom up and um and develop
hypotheses for how to amend the system.
And that's what I've been doing. I love
hearing this because so many people have
teams that are not functioning
incredibly well. And hearing from
someone that is not a longtime product
person come in and try to fix these
problems, I think is really useful and
interesting for people to hear. to to
dig into this a little bit more. Um was
the big lesson and kind of uh
eye-opening moment that there's a lot of
kind of foundational work that needs to
happen to achieve this outcome that
you're trying to achieve which is
measure uh engagement and adoption.
Well, is it like tracking and metrics
and data science? Is that kind of the in
the lesson there? The lesson is
that everything
must be done in its time and order and
you can move really really quickly. Uh
you can you can there's no sort of
excuse not to move with urgency on all
of these things, but you got to do them
in order. And you have to you have to
lead bottom up. Like you got to lead
from the specific circumstances you
observe. And I think for me, one of the
best things that's happened over the
last 11 months is that I've gained
a greater trust in my own instincts that
that the that the sort of patterns I've
matched across other functions do indeed
apply in product. But I have both the
advantage and disadvantage of not having
led a product function before and
therefore must think about every problem
from first principles. I have no choice.
I can read [__] on the internet. I can
like listen to clear thinkers on topics
and import their ideas, but I'm very
reluctant to import an idea without
breaking it down into its constituent
parts and figuring out how it applies at
Rippling. And so I don't actually give a
[__] about adoption metrics uh as a
matter of principle. I care about
adoption metrics when I care about
adoption metrics. Like I realize that
that's a tautological statement, but
it's like I'll get there. And so in
certain parts of our product, I really
do care about adoption metrics. I care a
lot about adoption metrics in our
applicant tracking system, our
recruiting product, because it's in a
really good place from a usability
standpoint. It's very well instrumented.
It's got like very happy users. Um it's
got an awesome growth profile. And so we
should we should be really focused on
the adoption metrics because I think
that's going to be an important
ingredient to low churn over time. You
know, removing friction from the
implementation process as an example.
There are other parts of our product
where I would say I don't care at all
about adoption and am much more focused
on foundational things like I said
earlier test coverage or whatever just
to make sure that the thing is stable
and good and delivering exactly what
it's supposed to deliver to deliver once
it's adopted. Now that you're on the
inside of the product team, what's
something that you think people outside
of product, say Matt two years ago or
other, I don't know, go to market leads,
other execs, uh, should hear need to
understand about product that they don't
until they're on the inside. I'll give
you another framework that I like to
use. In the financial world, there's
this concept of alpha.
Alpha is outperformance relative to the
index. So that's why you have
seekingalfalpha.com as a very popular
website. What they mean by that is
you're looking to buy something, some
combination of assets that will
outperform, let's say, the S&P 500 if
that's your benchmark. So alpha is the
outperformance relative to the index.
And then you have the concept of beta.
Beta is just volatility. Beta is not
good. A high beta stock jerks around for
no particular reason. It's like
disorrelated with the index. It just,
you know, it's very high beta. great if
you're an options trader, but other than
that, it's not really something you want
in an asset. And so,
your ideal stock is a very high alpha,
very low beta stock. They don't really
come in that shape because alpha and
beta tend to be correlated, but that's
what you want when you buy a financial
asset. So, what's the analogy? I think
you have high alpha people who are very
valuable. I think you also have low beta
people who are also very valuable
people. Um, Dennis Rodman,
basketball player, nut job, very high
alpha. And you know, there's room on
every team for one. Dennis Rodman is a
favorite of mine. It's like you can have
one difficult employee who's got a ton
of upside. Um, and so this alpha beta
thing, I use it pretty often when
contemplating what kind of person I want
and also what kind of process I want. So
when you're building a product from 0 to
one, you're probably pursu pursuing
alpha. You're looking for some angle on
this market or this customer problem
where the product is actually going to
provide an outsiz return relative to
whatever the default solution is. When
you have a more mature product or if you
have somebody in the product operations
group or whatever, you probably want a
more low beta environment where it's
like it cranks it out. It does it very
reliably. Our payroll product, we badly
want the payroll product to be very low
beta. We really don't want the payroll
product to have any unpredictability or
aberration. And so we're [clears throat]
willing to accept more process. And
here's a fundamental principle of design
in an organization which is that
processes
processes in a business exist for the
sole purpose of lowering beta.
Processes are for decreasing volatility
in the output of the system.
The the the downside of a process is
that it suppresses alpha. And you have
to be super super careful and judicious
in the application of process in the
product team to
know that you're lowering beta in the
places where you want to do that without
suppressing alpha in the places where
you need it. And so as we've gone
through the last, you know, year of
reforming the way that we build product
at Ripwing, it's been a game of
recognizing those places where I need to
implement a touch of process, just a
touch. Other places where I need to
implement a very clear rigid process
where I don't want alpha, I just want
low beta. And so examples of this are,
let's say, our product quality list,
which we lovingly at Riplin call the
pickle.
>> Why pickle? Yeah. So it's actually a
really important thing. I think if you
want to bring about cultural change in a
team, like look, we have we have 1300
people in our R&D organization. It's a
big ship that we have to steer. If you
want to create a moment that sticks in
people's brains and sort of becomes a
zeitgeist or something that they latch
on to, you got to create an entity, a
vessel for meaning, and then you got to
fill that vessel with your meaning. A
meme, you might say.
>> Yeah. Well, sure. a meme like a meme is
actually a good example of this in
common culture, you know, and um I in
pop culture, I think like it's why when
when people come to the table with with
with ideas from the outside, I welcome
those outside ideas, but if the first
thing I ask the person to do is to tell
me what they mean without using those
words. So when someone comes in and
says, "Hey, I want to do this thing on
strategy." I'm like, "Cool, tell me what
you mean without using the word
strategy."
And it forces them to break it down into
its constituent parts. And if they can
articulate it clearly without using that
word, I know that they know what they're
talking about. And if they just fumble
around with the word strategy again, I'm
like, okay, you actually haven't thought
this through. And so with the pickle,
with the product quality list, it's like
I could come up with some generic term
for this, but I really want a new joiner
at the company to understand that this
is an idiosyncratic thing to rippling.
This is unique to us. You you want to
understand this thing. I also want it to
become a component of common parliament
in the day-to-day work of the product
management and engineering teams. And so
pickle, as cheeky or silly as it sounds,
was deliberately sort of angular or
stood out as a vessel I could fill with
a particular meaning. And so we have a
product quality list. And the product
quality list is lightweight in the sense
that it just articulates in the simplest
ways the standards we want you to meet
when you ship a product. Doesn't apply
to every product. Not every line applies
to every product, but it's comprehensive
and it provides me with a framework for
iterating over time as we learn. And so
just yesterday, we shipped the product
to Parker. This is part of our process.
When we ship a new product, it goes to
Parker, who is the big admin for Ripling
at Rippling. If you're not aware, Parker
is the sole payroll administrator for
Ripling, for all 5200 employees. He
personally runs payroll always. There is
no exception for all 5200 people. He
does complain about it sometimes, but
it's a remarkable achievement for the
software and perhaps for him. And so he
also installs any new app that we're
going to install for ourselves because
we dog food the hell out of everything
we build. Yesterday he goes to install
this new application. We're about to
ship a new app for feedback, allowing
people to give one another feedback on
their companies. And he installs it and
he goes in and it dumps him onto an
empty screen.
And he's like, "What the [__] is this?
What is this? What's going on?" Like,
"Hey, wow. Talk about fail." So I um
chop another one of my fingers off. I'm
down to nine. And uh I'm like, what did
we miss? What we missed was there was a
[__] feature flag. [__] feature
flag. And I'm just I'm not allowed to
say feature flag without [__] in
front of it because like feature flags
are the bane of my existence and the
worst things in the world that
constantly cause problems. Engineers put
one in temporarily and forget. It's like
shims. If you're building a house and
the general contractor puts little shims
in places and then forgets that they put
the shims there and then builds a wall
over them and eventually the shim fails
and all of a sudden your door doesn't
fit. Like feature flags are super
dangerous and need to be managed
carefully. So [__] feature flags.
Anyway, we had one. Parker installs it.
They forgot to disable the feature flag.
He gets a blank screen when he installs
the application. What did I do? My
reaction was uggh. Go back to the team.
Give them direct feedback. Tell them not
to make that mistake again. But also ask
the question, how did we miss this in
the factory inspection process? And the
answer is we didn't have any line item
in the pickle for feature flags. And so
I added a line to the [__] pickle
that said you are allowed to have one
feature flag that governs your entire
product at ship. It's an extreme
standard that might not be achievable
but it's the standard we aspire to. This
framework, the pickle, given these
lightweight checklists iterated on
consistently in response to everything
we learn as we go, constitutes a very
nice lightweight way to lower the beta
of the system with hopefully only a
modeicum of negative impact on the alpha
for how we build product. And so that's,
you know, you asked me a very simple
question. I gave you a very long-winded
answer, but these frameworks help me
design systems that scale, you know,
across one going to 2,000 technical
workers.
>> Wow. Okay. By the [clears throat] way,
pickle, is that is that like an acronym
or it's just like I like this word.
We're going to call it pickle.
>> Product quality list.
>> Product. Okay. I see. So it's the
consonant. Okay.
>> PQL, which how could you pronounce it
other than pickle? I'm imagining all
your decks have little pickle emojis and
and
>> the pickle emoji thing. The dancing
pickle in Slack. There's a lot of Yeah,
it it lends itself to a bit of fun.
>> What I think about is pickle rake.
>> Yeah. Do you get that reference?
>> This is a roarjack test.
>> Okay. So, this high alpha low beta, I
love this concept. So, the idea is
depending on the team, depending on the
problem, uh we need a high alpha, low
beta person or actually we're okay with
a lot of variance for this specific
project. Yeah, we're willing to accept a
bunch of volatility in this area in
exchange for the upside we get from the
creativity and risk-taking of these
people or these pro or the lack of
process that sort of gives them the
latitude to do what they want to do.
>> And so when you're hiring, you're
looking for okay, is this person low
beta or not? That's going to be
>> for sure. I mean it's really quite a
useful way you know when you you meet a
candidate and
you I mean my my my modus operandi and I
think you know with talk about hiring
for a second I think um
I've spent a lot of time with teams at
Ripling talking about how I hire
and it is born of batting practice
meet it be super interesting to actually
be able to rewind the tape on my life
and and sort of contemplate how many
candidates I've met in every context
many thousands, you know, maybe tens of
thousands, I don't know. Um, it's a lot
of batting practice and a lot of model
training in my brain. And so I
rely a lot on my intuition, which of
course HR people say you're not supposed
to do. That's complete [__] If you
have a good intuition, you should
absolutely rely on your intuition. And
um, what you have to do after you have a
a reaction to a candidate when you when
you're looking at um, hiring somebody is
you need to decode you need to decode
your intuition so that it can be
expressed to other people productively.
And so one of the frameworks that I use
for this is spo. Um it's a very ugly
acronym. There's a hat tip to somebody
out there in the universe who originally
thought of this. It's not me, but I
adopted it. And it's it's that people
are smart, passionate, optimistic,
tenacious, adaptable, and kind. Those
five things. Six. Can't even count. I I
told you I lost a finger right when I
made a mistake. So I was down one.
>> Nine. Nine to go. Spottac isn't by
itself a good top- down framework, but
when you're thinking about, oh, why did
I not why did this candidate just like
why did it not click? Why did I not like
them? Um, you go down the list, you're
like, oh yeah, no, this person, it's
that they were not excited about the
idea. They weren't passionate. You know,
it's like it's that they talked [__]
about their previous manager and that
they were a victim of the performance of
their last two companies. That's what it
was. They're not optimistic. Um, you
know, it's the the framework is super
useful to evaluating people. And I think
the the alpha beta framework is also
super useful. When you come away from a
conversation, you're like, I like that
guy. I think he'd be really really good.
Why is it that I don't think he would do
a good job on this product in
particular, and the answer is like, this
is a high alpha product area, and he's a
low beta person. Valuable, but
definitely not the right fit for this.
And so, I think it's really useful in
that context as well. I love all these
frameworks. You're speaking to this
audience. Frameworks, frameworks,
frameworks. Yeah. So, high high alpha,
low beta, sometimes high beta is okay.
Spo um in hiring, is there anything else
that you find really useful before we
move on to a different topic? When I
first started working in the product
organization, I was introduced to a
an interview framework or an interview
tactic that I hadn't really used much at
all, I think, in my career, which is
that every product person at every
seniority level is given the same case
study.
And the case study is extraordinarily
difficult. It requires you to think
about many many dimensions
simultaneously to think about data
propagation issues. It's gets quite
technical and um the rubric that we use
to uh uh sort of evaluate performance of
that case study is um it gives you
guidance on what for us like an entry-
level PM looks like, what a junior
mid-career senior executive PM might
look like. And everybody comes away from
that interview feeling like poop, like
they had failed it. Whereas on our side
of it, we're like, "Wow, that person got
really far." Like they saw around three
or four corners in a really impressive
way. There was 10 they didn't see
around, but they saw around four of the
hardest ones. And they were not
defensive when we gave them new
information that called into question
the validity of their solution. And they
were willing to interrupt us to ask more
questions. and and and like a lot of the
sort of basic human interaction models.
I I you know, you'd never think that
like giving someone an impossible task
and even including the L5 person versus
the VP on the same thing would be
productive. And let's just say our
recruiting team still sort of cavetes a
bit about this and feels like we
eliminate people too aggressively at
this stage of the interview process. But
I've found the wisdom in it and think
it's actually quite useful to give
everyone the same simple complicated
prompt and just see hand them a drill
bit, give them the concrete wall and see
if they can get a millimeter or an inch
into the concrete. You know, they're
never going to get all the way through
the wall. It doesn't matter. You're
going to learn a lot. And I've found
that to be kind of an eye openening new
thing for me that that has been fun. I
mean, look, the joy of product and the
joy of product management and the joy of
of being part of product. I think
there's a bunch of joys actually. if I
could give you a sort of running list,
but like one of the big joys is that you
get to work with some of the smartest
people in software. Engineers are very
smart. They're not always the best sort
of social, you know, uh, entities. Sales
people are awesome social entities.
They're not always the best systems
thinkers. You go down the list. But the
magic of product management is that you
kind of have to, you know, we talk about
the the mini CEO. I think it's kind of a
stupid misnomer, but there's some
there's some wisdom there. And I think
the wisdom is that you have to be a
polymath. Like you've got to be really
good at working with other people. You
got to be good at communications and
articulation. You got to be good at
project management. You got to be good
at the science and the math and the
engineering. It's really [__] cool.
And so I think one of the great joys of
this job for me has been interacting
with like the the tippity top of the
smartest and and most polymathic people
in the industry. I'll say one other
thing about what I love about leading
product which is
as a COO
my job was to accept the product as it
was and optimize everything around that.
My job was to make sure that the product
operations the in our business the
interface to the insurance carriers the
interface to the payment entities the
government regulators that stuff all
just sort of worked. It was to make sure
that our sales engine, our marketing
engine, all the go-to market stuff like
optimized itself around what the product
was. Uh it was about recruiting and
making sure we got people in to work on
the product. You kind of go down any
function that isn't in R&D and I had
some hand in trying to figure out how to
make that function work to the best of
its ability given what the product was.
And now that I lead product, I'm like,
"Oh, wow. This is the high order bid."
Not that I didn't sort of understand
that, but like now I really get that
product is the high order bit. If you
get the product right, it fits in the
market. Uh everything else gets easier.
Finance is easier, sales is easier,
marketing is easier, recruiting is
easier, everything gets [__] easier.
And so I think the other joy of of
leading the product function is that uh
I get to set the highest order bit in
the business's success to one.
>> This is uh really great to hear. uh a
lot of times people outside product
don't understand these sorts of things
and uh look down on product a lot of
times especially you know sales folks
cos a lot of times I love that you're
seeing this and realizing this and uh
recognizing just how uh important and
interesting and uh and challenging this
work is and just how awesome PMs are you
know as you know a lot of people are
very anti- product manager why do we
need product managers we don't need them
just slow everything down all this
process
>> I have a distinction there which is I'm
anti- shitty product managers
>> that's exactly how I put If you hate
product managers, you just haven't
worked with a great product manager.
>> It's like, look, I I love wine. Wine's
one of my things, and I've learned a lot
about wine, and one of the my favorite
lines like, I don't like Chardonnay.
And I'm like, no, no, no, no, no.
Chardonnay is the most [__] amazing
varieties of of wine in the world. You
just haven't had good Chardonnay, you
know, and uh there's a Chardonnay out
there for you. Product management, like
you don't like product management, you
think product managers suck. It's like,
well, you just you just haven't had a
good Chardonnay yet.
>> That's exactly
>> once you have one. Once you have one,
you know, you can't unlearn it.
[laughter]
>> Like, let's find that PM ASAP.
>> No, let's find that Chardonnay ASAP
[laughter]
that PM with with some Chardonnay. You
met you touched on this product market
fit point and I want to double down on
this thread. You had a you've had a
couple really interesting experiences of
struggling to find product market fit
with your own startup. You said you
worked on it for nine years, you said.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. And then with Ripling, uh,
complete opposite, extreme product
market fit up and to the right. What's
something you've learned about just that
that you think people maybe don't
understand about what it feels like,
what it takes to get to product market
fit, how things
>> there's a line that um this venture
capitalist whose name I will not mention
said which was, you know, that that um
product market fit is a sort of thing
where you you absolutely know it when
you see it and therefore if you don't
absolutely know it, you don't have it.
And
this kind of gets back to my point about
learning from mistakes versus successes.
It's like, ah, man. Over and over again
over the course of the many years that
that I spent at Ripling, sorry, Inkling,
we thought we had it. We thought we had
product market fit. Maybe, maybe, you
know, and um
in hindsight, with the benefit of now
having experienced solid product market
fit, it was so so obvious that we
didn't. And I've invested in like 60
companies or 70 companies. I don't know.
It's not something I actively do. Um,
but but opportunities by virtue I think
of my my role at Ripling sort of show up
and I talk to lots of entrepreneurs and
I love it and I find it super
stimulating and I love the fresh ideas
and it's just something I do as a real
cherry on top of the sport that I play
already. Um, but when I get the investor
updates for the guys who've been at it
for like three, four, you know, years,
and
I read the updates from them that I sent
to my investors in 2011 and 2012, I'm
kind of heartbroken.
We talk in Silicon Valley about never
quit, but that is complete absolute
venture capital [__] The incentive
of a venture capitalist is to put money
into your company and milk you dry.
They never get their money back. There
is no way for them to take that
investment back.
And so the only logical
desire that they would have is for you
to keep trying
against all odds because there is the
occasional example where someone pivoted
from A to X and it was wildly different
and it worked. Slack was originally some
sort of a gaming company and became
corporate chat. You know, Airbnb maybe.
It's like there's some examples of
companies having made wild pivots and
succeeded, but man is that rare. I mean,
just so exceedingly rare. And I think
it's important to remember like, you
know, I'm 45 years old. I we're going to
be on the planet. I mean, the average
age of a man in the United States when
he dies is something in the mid70s.
Like, I've got 20, 30, maybe, if I'm
lucky, 40 years left on the planet. Very
conscious of the time that I have. And
like I don't regret what I did at
Inkling. I learned a lot. It informed
what I do now. I don't think the chapter
uh I'm in right now could have come
without the chapters before it. And so
it's a it's a beautiful wonderful thing
that I did what I did. But when I read
the investor update and I'm like, you're
where I was and you are not getting out
of this.
The Silicon Valley
try until you die mindset is not pro
entrepreneur. It's pro venture
capitalist.
And I know why that is, but I think it's
important to say out loud that you
should [__] quit. You should reset
the clock. You should reset the cap
table because trust me, product market
fit when it arrives is insane and it's
exciting and you should pursue it and
never delude yourself into believing you
have it when you don't. It is dangerous
and regrettable. How's that for a
speech? [laughter]
Beautiful. The the uh the anti the
anti-VC speech. The
>> I got more where that came from. By the
way, it's not it's not anti-VC. It's
anti- VC propaganda.
>> It's the incent everybody's acting in
accordance with their incentives in
Silicon Valley. The executives, the
founders, the the venture cap,
everybody's of course acting behaving in
you know in accordance with their
incentives and the venture capitalists
have very strong enduring incentives
that have shaped the dynamic of how
Silicon Valley works. There's nothing
wrong with that. It's just really,
really important to point them out and
scream at them for the 25-year-old
entrepreneur who has no [__] clue how
this stuff works. Trust me, the
45-year-old entrepreneur or the
50-year-old venture capitalist who have
been in the game for a while, they get
it. They've observed it. They know what
it's like. The system is there to take
advantage of the people who who don't,
or at least it is the easiest prey for
the incentive structures, not for
venture capitalists as individual people
who are beautiful and wonder all of
them. are just really wonderful people.
It's it's just that the incentive
structures lead to some real harm, I
think, in certain cases. And the thing I
find is when you do quit VCs, like I'm
always just like, "Hey, let me know when
you're starting your next day. I'm
excited to invest." They're never
they're rarely, unless they're not a
great VC, rarely are they just pissed at
you for like, "How could you possibly
not make this work?" That's the thing
like as a as a founder when it's time to
throw in the towel on your business and
you're so obsessed with giving money
back to the cap table I always remind
the entrepreneur like hey if you're in
the seed investing game your forecast is
zero your assumption on every investment
is that it's going to go to zero. Any
seed investor who doesn't take that
stance is is off their rocker anyway.
You know they're a very bad investor.
Um, seek investors who play the long
game, who want to be in your second and
third company and are willing to take a
bet on the first one and let it go to
zero so that you can get on with stuff.
I mean, this is like I've had that
conversation many times. This episode is
brought to you by GoFundMe Giving Funds,
the zero fee donor advised fund. I want
to tell you about a new DAFF product
that GoFundMe just launched that makes
year and giving easy. GoFundMe Giving
Funds is the DAFF or donor advice fund
supported by the world's number one
giving platform entrusted by over 200
million people. It's basically your own
mini foundation without the lawyers or
admin costs. You contribute money or
appreciated assets like stocks, get the
tax deduction right away, potentially
reduce capital gains, [music] and then
decide later where you want to donate.
There are zero admin or asset fees, and
you can lock in your deductions now and
decide where to give later, which is
perfect for year-end giving. Join the
GoFundMe community of over 200 million
people and [music] start saving money on
your tax bill, all while helping the
causes that you care about most. Start
your giving fund today at
gofundme.com/lenny.
If you transfer your existing DAFF over,
they'll even cover the DAFF pay fees.
That's gofundme.com/lenny
to get started. This begs the question
of just when is it time to quit? You
know, people hearing this might be like,
oh man, like what are some signs that
okay, it's time to it's time to wrap it
up. Uh here, look, history provides us
with a clear guide. When you look at
companies having hit it big, they hit
big pretty quick. It's very, very
dangerous to be late to the party. It's
very, very dangerous to be early to the
party. And the vast majority of the
time, that's the problem. You know, like
rippling had it been started in 2014
would not be what it is today. I think
Rippling had it been started today would
not be what it is five years from now
today. And so I think like timing is a
lot and it's very hard to control for.
But when you get the timing right and
the market is real and the product
works, product market fit, like I said
earlier, it's it's super clear. And so
if I were to pick a number out of a hat,
just from my lived experience, I think
it's very important. One one aside,
don't ask people for advice.
Ask people for relevant experience.
If you ask them for advice, they will
always give it. But if you ask them for
relevant experience, they rarely have
any to offer. And if they don't have any
to offer, then don't ask for their
advice. So ask people for relevant
experience. And I try to do this, you
know, with with my own entrepreneurs
when I work with them. It's like, let me
offer you whatever relevant experience I
have. And my relevant experience on this
topic of when to quit is like I think we
could have called it after the second or
third pivot
which was somewhere around year four. It
is all is of course very important to
believe in what you're building and to
be you know like to be persistent.
Um but there is definitely no shame in
saying look we've pivoted once or twice
it's not catching I got to go do the
next thing. And I think like if you're
year four, year five in your
entrepreneurship journey and it's not
just obviously a screaming rip roaring
growth story, it's extraordinarily
difficult. This is so extremely rare. So
beyond even already the rare scores
you're going to, you know, uh face uh
from the outset that that that that that
now is is going to convert to something
crazy. So that's hard to hear, I guess,
but man, it can be really liberating
when you're like, "Fuck it. I'm going to
do this. I have the energy. I'm going to
do it again. I'm just going to do it
with a clean sheet.
>> That is really helpful. You have this
really fun way of describing product
market fit around uh receptors and
drugs.
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. I think this is like a
really fundamentally misunderstood
dynamic. Um
when I when when founders message me and
they're like, "Hey, like like my
LinkedIn post and my tweet for this
launch."
I do it. I retweet it. I like it.
Whatever. Nobody follows me on Twitter
anyways. Doesn't matter. Like I, you
know, I do that and then um but I think
to myself like this is not what this is
about. Like this is not this is not how
great companies are built. It can be a
nucleating a nucleating event, but it's
not a major thing because nobody cares
about your company. Like your launch
doesn't matter. Big fat pull the pull
the slingshot back launches uh amount to
the teeniest thimble of water in the
ocean of noise about startups and
companies. Um, and so you just got to
build it brick by brick, bottom up. And
and these launches don't really amount
to much. And so you how do you think
about that? Like how do you think about
the insignificance of your launch? Or
you think about all the effort you're
putting into building a product that you
believe is going to have product market
fit. Well, if if you recognize that the
market is immutable, no amount of
tweeting, LinkedIn posting, advertising
is going to change whether the market
wants your product. It's not. It might
raise awareness about your product, but
it's not going to change whether
somebody wants it. Then you take a
different mindset. You have to view your
startup as running an experiment in the
universe to see what you get in return
for that. And this analogy of like drug
discovery and binding receptors is like
nobody at Janentech thinks they can
market their way to better performance
inside your body. The binding receptors
for that drug, they exist or they don't.
And when they build their product, their
goal is to find out whether the binding
receptors exist. But fate already has
decided the outcome. This is absolutely
true of every software product you
build. Fate has already decided the
outcome. The market's either going to
latch onto your product and run with it
or it's not. Do not ship the product,
find a lack of success, and then try to
market your way through that because the
binding receptors likely don't exist.
And I I for me it was a very liberating
mindset because now I just have to find
the right drug and I can forget trying
to convince the body to develop the
binding receptors for whatever it is
that I'm building.
>> What I love about your advice here is
you were an early investor in notion
which is one of the classic stories of
it took them I think it was four years
to get to something. I think they moved
to Japan, they worked on the whole
thing. And so is there a lesson from
there? Like is that a rare example where
it actually worked? And that's not an
example to be inspired by because it's
extremely extremely rare. Let's talk
about Alpha Beta again. Okay.
As an investor, you might build a
checklist of things you want to make
sure are true or false about a company
and hope that that's going to yield the
kind of like investment success you're
looking for. Does it have this kind of
founder? Does it have, you know, is it a
CC corp in Delaware? like, you know,
boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. And
these checklists are all about what?
They're all about suppressing beta.
They're about avoiding avoidable
mistakes. They're about bringing
stability.
Jeff Lewis is an investor who has many
angular views on things. And I think one
of his most enduring phrases is
narrative violations. This idea that
like the common wisdom must be violated
in some way by every company that has an
outsized success.
It is absolutely true. And when I give
these general observations on the
patterns in Silicon Valley,
the most successful businesses
inevitably violate something on that
list in some really important way.
And so Notion,
you can't replicate Notion's success as
an entrepreneur. You can't replicate it
because you're not Ivan.
You can't replicate it because you're
not. You can't replicate it because it's
not 2010 when they started the company.
Do the math on that.
Or 2011, actually.
These guys stuck with it. They went
through hell. They pivoted. They went to
Japan and sat in kimonos and meditated
on what they were going to build. And by
hook/crook,
they got to where they are today as a
really wildly successful business in an
extraordinarily difficult market where
building businesses is virtually
impossible in productivity. It is
dominated by Google and Microsoft.
Carving out your own niche in that
market is just unthinkable.
And so I look at notion as
having succeeded by virtue of the
narrative violation of persistence I
don't think is a good idea for very many
people that happened to work for them
and I look at it as being a function of
the founding team and their specific
idiosyncrasies the the absolute
insistence on craftsmanship from Ivan.
This is him that's his thing. The
takeaway lesson is not give up or don't
give up. The takeaway lesson is
certainly not go do what notion did. The
takeaway lesson is that every company
succeeds on the foundations of the
idiosyncrasies of the founder.
The idiosyncrasies of the founder.
Ripling succeeds for almost the polar
opposite reasons that notion succeeds.
But in both cases, the companies succeed
on the idiosyncrasies of the founder.
And so embracing that, recognizing those
idiosyncrasies, that's what great
investors do. They spot that element of
spikiness and greatness in a candidate
investment and they convert that to a
commitment and then of course the
investor or the good ones accept what
they get in exchange from that for the
universe from the universe. I love that
we went in this direction. I wasn't
planning to talk about your investing
career. Uh just to give people a reason
to listen to this and maybe rewind and I
want to ask another question around
investing. What are some other companies
you invested in early?
>> First of all, okay, so I I I sort of I
hate the question like [laughter]
what are [clears throat] some other
companies you've invested in? It's a
fair question, but the problem is like
I'm going to give you a bunch of
companies I've invested in that that
won, you know, that are like really
notable. So, what I would like to do
instead of answering that question, so
I'm going to give here let me let me
give you some some like some bait. Like
I I was one of the first investors in
notion. I was perhaps the first I don't
know ask Ivan um Clever, which you know
had a great exit. Uh I was one of the
first investors in Zenitz if you've
heard of it. Um
>> heard of it.
>> I um was before I joined one of the
first investors in Rippling and then
more recently like invested in um here's
a funny one. I was one of the first
investors in deal if you've heard of
them. [laughter] Um
>> I you know I I was able to exit I was
able to exit that position and then you
know hopefully that company's going to
zero with their criminal behavior but
whatever. Um I was but more recently
like you know if you've if you know um
like Decagon which is doing some really
cool stuff on the AI front
>> killing it.
>> Um I mean Langchain like great. So those
are some companies you maybe you've
heard of but like how about like I
invested in macro founder was Derek Lee.
Macro's out of business. I invested in
debrief Ned Roxson. It's it's out of
business you know. I invested in verb
data with David Herz out of business.
I'm reading from a list. I invested in
um what's the number? 70 companies
according to this list where I track
things and like most of them went to
zero. And all those founders were
awesome. All those founders were kickass
and all those founders put a [__] ton of
energy into building their businesses
and they went to zero. Um and they're
enduring relationships. cuz I can call
in any of those people I think maybe
with the exception of deal and you know
call in a favor and and and have and
I've you know I've got a few subsequent
actually a lot of them joined Ripling
believe it or not so I don't know
companies I've invested in is a long
list and I love to give you names of
companies that don't exist anymore
because it's self- serving and a
horrible survivorship bias to just list
the good ones. I love that answer. I
think uh I think you're being modest in
the context of your hit rate is clearly
very high. Uh even one or two incredibly
successful companies out of 70 is is a
win in VC. And so uh you're doing very
well. But I I think that's a really
important perspective. When you see
people's logos on their websites of all
the companies they've invested in, you
have no idea how many they've how many
at bats they've had.
>> It's good practice to ask people to give
you the full list.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> What are your favorite failures that
you've invested in?
>> Oh, no. Oh, I'm not I'm not actually
Okay.
>> Well, I was like, no, we don't spend
time on it, but I think it's actually
really a good question. Yeah. Like, what
are some of your f your best failed
investments?
>> Show me the logos of the companies that
didn't work out.
>> It's a really it's a juicy question.
Yeah.
>> There's a topic around this area that I
wanted to spend time on and uh I haven't
heard anyone uh think of things this
way, which is this idea you talk about
of compounding plus power law plus
entropy and how that's a really useful
frame to think about business. So you
you you kick this conversation off sort
of invoking the extraordinary outcomes
demand extraordinary efforts line. Hat
tip to Dan Gil. And these are part and
parcel like man understanding the nature
of the universe is a pretty good way to
work within it. And so like power law
distributions happen everywhere. It
explains why so few people control so
much wealth. It it explains why Steph
Curry is just so vastly better than the
next guy down on the list on the
basketball team. It explains why
populations are concentrated into a
really relatively small number of mega
cities in the world. It's like um power
law distribution just plays out
everywhere and like once you see it, you
can't unsee it. It's it sort of plays
out in many dynamics. People tend to
think that like the world plays on a
more linear relationship where the x and
y axis are sort of you know y equals x
but that is absolutely not the case and
the implications are profound. It's like
if you build something to 80 or 90% the
y- axis is barely budged yet. You
haven't like hit the inflection point in
terms of reward. And so the implication
of the power law more broadly is that
people who are in the top 10% the top 5%
don't just get 10 or you know 20% more
reward they get 10x the reward or 100x
the reward. It's really dramatic.
Entropy the second law of thermodynamics
is a very simple concept. It's the
reason your sock drawer becomes messy.
Um it's the reason that potholes form.
It's the reason we have to put so much
energy into maintaining the aircraft we
fly to keep them safe because they
really really really want to fall apart.
And that's the nature of things. If you
if you abandon a city for a few months,
it starts to go, you know, and so
entropy is just this concept that [__]
tends toward disorder. And the the
universe, I mean, life itself is a
temporary victory against entropy. You
and I should not exist. The sun gives
energy to the planet. it organizes stuff
that we can eat and like we fight
entropy until we lose the battle
somewhere as I said earlier at the age
of 70 or 80 um if we're lucky.
What does this have to do with with
product? Uh
this is really about effort.
The only antidote to entropy, the only
antidote to decay in a system is energy.
You got to inject energy. So if you have
a codebase, every line of code that you
add to that codebase increases the
entropy of that system and demands ever
more energy from human beings to go in
and tend to it to make sure it doesn't
break. And if you want to achieve
greatness, if you want an extraordinary
outcome, and in particular, if you want
to be in the top 10%, top 5% on the
x-axis so that the y-axis is through the
roof, then you have to relentlessly
inject energy at every single step of
the game.
Teams will sadly but because we are all
human. Teams will always optimize for
local comfort over company outcomes.
Not because they get together and think
we should do that although unions do do
that unequivocally deliberately.
But even in a collection of product
managers or engineers what's going to
happen over time is entropy is going to
creep in and people are going to
optimize for local comfort. Your job as
an executive, as a leader, is to fight
that entropy tooth and nail every single
day. It means that every time you see a
bug, every time you see a bug, not most
of the time, every time you go and you
drop it at the feet of the product
manager or the engineering manager,
every time in public preferably, it
means that every time someone comes to
you to hire someone and says that they
have skipped the back channel, every
time you're like, you can't hire this
person unless you do the back channel.
It means that when you get into the
board and tired zone on any process that
you as the executive have got to demand
the 99th percentile of energy because
otherwise entropy creeps in and the
system decays. You have to do this. One
of the messages that I delivered
recently at our big executive big, like
our top 75 manager off-site that we do
roughly every 18 months, um, was a
reminder that like if the if the purest
form of ambition and the purest and most
intense
source of energy in the business is the
founder CEO.
that every next concentric circle of
management beyond the founder CEO has
the potential to be an order of
magnitude drop off in intensity
and that is [__] dangerous because if
you go to two layers and it's two orders
of magnitude drop off in signal and
intensity that is a very dysfunctional
organization so what I said to the team
was it's not that you need to buffer
people from the intensity of the CEO
it's that you need to absolutely mirror
that intensity.
There are plenty of constituents in the
business around you who will advocate
for relaxing.
There is an infinite supply of people
under you who will buffer other team
members from the intensity of the
demands.
Your job is not to be one of those
buffers. Your job is to preserve that
intensity at its highest possible level
and let the buffering happen somewhere
else. And that's the point is that
entropy creeps into the system
insidiously and slowly over time off
your radar and you have to maintain that
intensity every minute of every day to
try and fight it if you want to stay at
the extreme right end of the power law
that obviously governs the outcome of
everything that we build. What does that
look like to pass along that intensity?
Like what [clears throat] does that feel
like? What does that look like? So, say
Parker comes to you. This bug sucks. I
got this a broken screen. You cut like
you you cut off your finger. Maybe
that's the example.
>> Okay. Still got them.
>> I got all 10.
>> I'll give you concrete examples. Um,
actually the joke that I sort of played
on this one when I presented to the to
the team was that the next sort of slide
in my presentation was with the sound
effect the Slack huddle thing and
Parker's icon in Slack is just he uses
the generic yellow the egg.
>> Yeah. Wow. Which, you know, it's like
it's funny. And so everybody knows the
yellow egg is like is Parker. And so the
next slide in the presentation was boop
boop boop boop boop boop boop which is
the sound that Slack makes when someone
calls you. And it was Parker Conrad is
inviting you to a huddle. And then the
next slide was Parker Conrad is modeling
personal intensity. And the idea is like
if you know you know like if you've ever
been dragged into an like I want to talk
about this [__] problem right now and
whatever you're doing unless it's an
interview like I want you to come and
have a conversation with me. That
intensity is one place where it plays
out. Every product team at Ripling and
we have a lot of them now have public
feedback channels. I am in there upside
down on everything I find when I use
those products and I just model for
everybody. But this is how it's this is
how at least I want to do it, which is I
don't like this. I don't understand
this. Tell me why this is this way. You
know, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. And
people jump in and respond. the factory
inspection process that I mentioned,
which is where at the end of the
assembly line, I jump out with the
pickle and we talk about all of the
elements. You have to record a loom of
every major flow through the product. I
personally review every one of those
flows. I got a backlog I got to catch up
on today and and provide feedback to
people always in a public channel so
that every other product manager and
engineering manager can jump in and see,
you know, how the process has worked for
other teams. It's about modeling the
intensity publicly so that other people
can say, "Okay, this is how we do things
around here." And it gives the reaction
the reaction from the team that received
the message that that you have to you
have to inject that energy every minute
of every day and that there are no
exceptions was not like that's
exhausting.
The reaction is h that is so
invigorating.
So in it's like so wonderful to hear
that we're going to achieve these great
outcomes or at least we have a shot at
doing so and that you're empowering me
to follow my instinct which is to really
like push for the best result. Um the
reaction universally is is like uh what
a relief that I get to go be intense
because nobody in a position of
leadership wants to be chill, you know?
And like what's worse than a chill boss?
No, don't work for a chill boss. Don't
be a chill boss. It's the most porative
label I could give you. Chill boss or
chill PM. Don't be chill. Chill doesn't
accomplish [__] Be intense. Be good. Be
respectful. Be intense. Don't be chill.
And again, this advice comes from where
we started, which is this is what
success looks like because somebody that
is less chill than you is going to find
that crack and come after your your
market. Is that is that the gist?
>> Or sure. I mean, again, if you're chill
and you move the X axis down 10 or 20
points, the Y-axis collapses.
It doesn't just drop 10 or 20%. The
Y-axis collapses. And this is just kind
of true in everything we we do. Um, so
yeah, if you want to win, you should
probably
should probably try. This is what I
always say to people trying to build
lifestyle businesses. There's always
this idea, I'm going to build a side
business. I'm going to make recurring
income. It's going to be amazing. And I
in my experience, anytime there's a
market or something shows up that's
juicy and there's ways to make money,
somebody's going to come at you and work
harder, raise more money, and there's
only so long you can maintain that.
Well, man, there's a whole other podcast
episode on the concept of leverage.
>> If you sell your time, you've only got
24 hours a day to give. But if you can
create a product that that scales,
you know, the the the marginal cost of a
unit of that product is zero like
software,
it's going to be competitive, man. Sell
your time. It's not going to be super
competitive, but like sell that you
achieve that level of leverage and it's
just going to there's it's a pretty
efficient market to close out this uh
threat of intensity and adding energy to
everything. Something I've heard about
you is you're big on uh escalating.
You're a big fan of escalating issues
and also you always tell people to never
not give you negative feedback, to
always share feedback, to not hide
anything. Tell me about those two.
Fundamentally, the most selfish thing
you can do is withhold feedback from
someone. Who are you optimizing for when
you do that? What are you optimizing for
when you think a thought that would help
someone improve and you avoid giving it
to them because it would make you
uncomfortable?
Well, you're optimizing for your own
comfort. And it's fundamentally selfish.
It's the most selfish thing you could
possibly do is withhold feedback that
would otherwise be useful to someone
because you don't want to be
uncomfortable. Well, that's not how high
performance teams operate. So, I demand
feedback
and I give it. And doesn't mean that
when I give feedback, it's not open to
being questioned or discussed. I mean,
of course, it is, but like when I
observe something, I try to say it.
That's the feedback topic.
The the part of this that that has been
interesting to me is that people
withhold escalate the customers
withhold. Customers don't want to
escalate to me as an executive
even like the the founders in whose
businesses I've invested who use
Rippling are reluctant to hit me up when
something goes wrong because they don't
want to bother me. But is literally my
job literally my job to find things
problems and make them better. And by
virtue of making those specific things
better to iterate on the processes so
that the system that builds the system
can get better. There's no greater gift
to me as a product executive than
receiving an escalation from a customer.
We have an escalations team at Ripling,
which sounds weird, but it's people who
are just particularly skilled at pistol
whipping other people in the company to
get to real root causes. Real root
causes. not like throw away the word
root cause like oh we fixed the data
error and shut the ticket down like no
you went and you found the software that
created the data error and then you
found the system that created the
software that created the data error and
you solved all of that back to the to
the to the top escalation seems like
extremely good at that at rippling so we
have sort of a dedicated little team
that does this for us escalations are a
gift and I and it's like if you're a
listener right now on this podcast and
you are a rippling customer and you have
[__] that you think we should know the
fact that I might already know it is not
a reason for you to withhold the gift of
your feedback. So, it's an attitude that
I take to this every day. I've got a
little cue of some stuff that I've, you
know, minor things that are um from the
last couple of days from people who who
had some nits and issues that I'm just
like I've got them queued up on my to-do
list today and I'm going to take them to
the product teams directly like I'd like
to understand what happened here. Not in
a negative way. I just think we'll all
get better if we study this one. And so,
yeah, uh escalations are a gift.
Feedback like that is a gift and nobody
is ever inconveniencing me when they do
it. For people that are listening to
this and feeling like, man, this is so
stressful and intense and just like I I
don't know if I want to work this way.
Give them a sense of just how successful
Ripling is. I think a lot of people may
not even heard have heard of Rippling. A
lot of people are like, "Yeah, it's
doing great." What are some things you
can share that are public or not public
that give people a sense of just how
massive this business has become? People
look at Ripley from the outside. I think
they think of us as like payroll and HR
or whatever which is cool like it's it's
a bit like saying Microsoft is a desktop
operating system company or you know
it's like every every company starts
from somewhere and grows out from there.
Um we see ourselves as building the most
successful business software platform in
history. In fact that's the mission
statement of our product organization
under the umbrella of the mission
statement of the company which is to
free smart people to work on hard
problems. And like when you translate
that from where we are today data, where
we think we're taking things, it's like
we really do believe that like the the
core of every workflow and everything
that a company has to do, be it AI or
manual traditional guey based software
is like is who's doing stuff, who owns
it, who's accountable. And so the people
record is a really important component
of that. You can argue that the customer
record is also very important. And of
course, some big businesses have been
built on that primitive as well, but we
think the people primitive is actually
much more important. And the only thing
that hasn't been done here is like
somebody hasn't been ambitious enough to
build a good business on top of that
primitive. Workday is terrible software.
Everybody agrees on that. I think
Workday agrees on that. Good luck to
them. But like they have failed actually
despite their success to build a really
broad general purpose software platform
for business software on the foundation
of the people primitive. So we're going
to do that. And um we're successful
because we deliver on that promise at
the scale we're at today. like the fact
that you can do and this is not this is
not a sales pitch or sort of like an
advertisement for rippling. I just think
it's important to sort of contemplate
that when you bring together a bunch of
disparate business processes into one
system on a common business data graph
an object graph a data lake with a
consistent interface you can do some
pretty magical things. So we do payroll,
we do HCM, we do it, we do spend, we are
about to launch a new product in the
category of business intelligence and
data management and there's a whole
bunch of other stuff coming beyond that.
And then then you layer in AI on top of
this where we alone where we alone have
all of your business data organized into
this nice neat package with a beautiful
semantic layer on top of it. the AI can
work magic and we have shipped nothing
nothing yet in this category that I
would say gets anywhere near what we're
going to show next year and it is going
to set the standard. It is going to be
the most like the back flips that the AI
is doing reading and writing data for
the user just on our internal use cases
at Ripling is jaw-dropping. So I'm super
excited about the tailwind this is going
to create for us. you ask about like
sort of what can I share about the
success of the company what I can say
there are tens of thousands of companies
that now run on rippling we're less than
1% of the market and so the you know and
like the market cap at 16 billion I
think now undervalues where we are from
a revenue perspective by a long shot um
there there is just so much upside to to
do what we're doing SAS might be deadish
in terms of point solutions but long
live SAS in terms of what we're building
let me follow that thread and and AI I
there's been a lot of talk about AI is
going to replace SAS [laughter] as you
maybe just said.
>> Yeah. People are going to vibe code
their way to their payroll system which
I you know good luck to the employees of
those companies.
>> And so what I'm hearing here is the the
that you actually do believe a lot of
SAS companies that are selling
individual solutions are in big trouble.
The answer is implied here is this kind
of compound startup idea of you need to
do a lot of things for people for them
to continue to pay for your software. Is
that is that the gist? No, I think the
gist is is a really good quote. I forget
who it's attributable to, but it's uh
you know, there's two ways to make money
in software. Bundling and unbundling.
And um you just got to get the timing
right. So, this is a this is a period of
bundling.
Point. So, here's the problem. Point
solutions don't have enough data in the
age of AI to be useful. You got to be
able to provide the AI with a lot of
context about a lot of data so it can do
things. It can do joins. it can do
correlations.
And so if you're a point solution,
you're in you're in hard you're in hard
water because you've got to now rely on
data from other sources. You've got to
integrate to third party systems. And
when you integrate to a third party
system, even the best ones are still
sort of drinking their data through a
straw, which is a real problem. I mean I
you know
there are the the biggest HCM software
company you can think of integrates to
the other biggest payroll software
company you can think of through flat
files via ST SFTP
[snorts]
>> like what are they going to do? What are
they going to do? It's just never going
to work. It's just no way. And so I like
literally have no idea what they're
going to do. They're just not going to
build AI software. I guess like point
SAS is is sort of in a in a rough sol in
a rough spot especially when you cleave
two really important systems apart and
say they have to integrate it's very
very hard. The other thing that I would
say about the world of even just like
not SAS but AI software is that point
solutions in the AI world are also in a
rough spot for the same reason. It's
like if you're selling the shovels like
OpenAI and and Google with Gemini, you
can make money. And if you own the mine
like Rippling with the data, you can
make money. If you're somewhere in the
middle building SA, sorry, building AI
software that then tries to use the
shovels from the shovel provider, but
then also needs to rent out the mine or
get the ore out of somebody else's mine
and start refining it. like you are in
you're in a very difficult place from an
economic standpoint because you're not
going to be permitted by either of those
parties to build a big business on their
backs. That's just not how it's going to
work. They're going to demand value
capture that crushes your unit
economics. So I look at the the like
landscape of AI companies that I've seen
and I think you have to have a really
durable interesting insight that gives
you a shot at viable unit economics to
be an interesting business and that is
going to kill off
80 or 90% of the stuff that I I see
right now as standalone AI businesses.
So what I'm hearing here I love that you
correct me when I get these things wrong
and that's exactly what I want. Uh, what
I'm hearing is it's less about how
difficult it is to build the SAS
product. It's about do you have
first-party data that allows you to
build an incredible AI product on top of
what you've got.
>> Yep. Because look, SAS software is a bit
flipping SAS all SAS software
applications are bit flippers. Like it's
a it's an interface changing Yeah.
changing values in a database. What it
does,
>> it's really hard pro like Rippling. One
of Rippling's superpowers is we're a
coin sorter. You dump like you know
$20,000 for an employee in the top of
the coin sorder and it figures out what
goes to the government, what goes to
health insurance, what goes to your
401k, what goes to you and it has to
move all that money very very reliably
and seamlessly. Very challenging
software to build and manage
what's it doing even that is just
flipping bits in a database. And so AI
is a new way to flip bits. AI is just a
new way to flip. Hopefully a way that
like abstracts us a little bit further
from having to think because our future
is Wall-E. It's gonna be great. Uh,
speaking of Wall-E, actually, I I have
this Madic robot. You have one of these?
>> Uh, it's a it's like a it's a like a
human. It's like a self-driving car
robot. Basically, self-driving car
people build this robot that cleans your
your house. It's maybe I didn't mention
that. It's like a a house cleaning robot
that just like goes around. It's like a
Roomba.
>> You should get one. They're they're
expensive but incredibly cool. And
actually in Wall-E, if there's a scene
where they actually have what basically
what these things look like. So it's not
so it's not so far.
>> That movie was actually quite preient
perhaps with the exception of the
gravity defying day beds.
[laughter]
>> Yeah. I don't know. But that's not good
news. You've seen that movie.
>> Oh man. So on this AI stuff, which is
which I'm hearing is you're probably
we're going to see a lot more
consolidation where these point solution
companies realize they need this data.
This is existential and they're going to
combine and merge and bundle as you
described.
>> It's possible. I am not investigator on
this stuff. I think like there's some
really interesting investors out there
who who I think are thinking quite
deeply about this and in particular uh
like I the conviction which is like Mike
Fernal and Sarah Gua
>> like I think those are two investors who
are hyperfocused on AI and when they
made the decision to sort of take that
approach
at the time I thought like that's kind
of narrow. Uh now I'm like no no no no
that was the right move and and like
they it just means that they like they
have a very deep deep deep uh set of
hypotheses that they've formed over the
course of of kind of seeing every AI
deal in the valley and um you know there
are better people to ask this question
of than I am and I uh and I think if
you're an entrepreneur I recommend them
to you because I think they're really
smart. Awesome. I love I love those
guys. Also Sarah and have a podcast
called No Priors that I'd also
recommend. We'll point and see in the
show notes. So on this AI note, I guess
is there anything else that you think
would be really helpful for founders
that are working in this space building
an AI startup to hear they think you're
seeing of like here's how you need to
here's what you need to do to win in an
AI company.
[laughter]
>> So like I actually think that if I were
to give you an answer to this question
right now it would be [__]
>> Yeah. I don't have back to my point
earlier. I don't have like I don't have
enough relevant experience in the
abstract to like dole out on a podcast
on that topic. But I, you know, I wish
them luck. I love that the circling back
to your advice, don't ask for advice,
ask for a relevant experience. And I
love that that's what your mind
immediately went. I'm going to take us
to AI quarter, which is a recurring
segment on this podcast. And the
question is just what's one way you've
found AI to be useful in your work dayto
day? Is there something that you found
it unlocked in having
>> I mean it's not a super exciting thing
but I'll say like where I use so I like
one of the most important functions that
I perform as an executive is the
synthesis of ideas and the ability to
communicate those ideas very clearly to
people. So when I talk about like the
product quality list and the pickle as
something that we've come up with
internally I do turn to um to AI chat
GPT and Gemini where I I take like a
really
um let's say angular view of some topic
and I give really I write the essay for
the AI and I'm like look this is the
crisp idea I want to communicate help me
come up with piffy ways to articulate
these things and 80% of what it outputs
is trash. It's just like sort of
middle-of the road average lowalpha
junk,
but it is a thought partner, a
non-judgmental thought partner where
like in 20% of the stuff it comes out
with, I'm like, it's pretty good. That's
a new word I didn't think of that does
kind of hit the nail on the head for
this concept. And so if you if I believe
that my job is is to sort of bring
brains along on the journey for some
sort of change that I'm trying to bring
about, then the most important tool is
language. And I do find that that chat
GPT and Gemini do a great job of helping
me refine how to articulate the concepts
that I want to to articulate. They are
not useful in coming up with the ideas
themselves. That's an awesome tip. I
don't know if you've played with Claude
much, but I actually find Claude is
better at writing and words and
language. I have not spent a lot of time
with Claude. I do I have used it. Um,
but by virtue of this conversation, I'll
probably go give it
>> There we go. They're they're all great,
but uh there's something about Claude
that is just at writing specifically is
much better. Um but they're all getting
better all the time. It's always there's
always uh something new. Matt, we've
covered so much ground. We've touched on
everything I was hoping to touch on.
Before we get to our very exciting
lightning round, is there anything else
that you were hoping to share? Anything
else you wanted to touch on or leave
listeners with? We've we've spent a lot
of time talking about intensity and the
grind and the need to just always be
operating at the 99th percentile.
And um
I think if you listen to that in a
vacuum, it's very easy to believe that
that intensity is
soul crushing
that that it's a negative um that it's
maybe not something that you want.
And I I think there's a backs stop for
me that I didn't talk about today that I
think I I is important to share which is
that life is amazing.
That like the fact that we all exist on
this blue marble
drifting through space and time that we
are some weird instantiation of
consciousness each of us. and that
you're here for such a short period of
time whittling your stick, doing
something
that like if you remember how
insignificant we are and all of this is,
it brings this levity
to what we do and and to the work we put
into building this because this is like
rip like Silicon Valley in 2025 is is
Florence in the Renaissance.
It's crazy. Like the amount of
creativity and insane invention and
progress that's happening for our
species right now in this place is
absolutely unparalleled in all human
history. You got to zoom out and
appreciate that magic. And so then you
turn around, you're like, "Fuck, I got
to work on Friday night, right? Like I
I've got to go give it my all. I got to
go compete in the arena of business."
Just you have to you never you have to
never forget that number one none of
this matters and number two it is an
absolutely beautiful and amazing
phenomenon that we get to be alive doing
this right now. So like play the sport
play it with everything you've got but
never forget that it's just a sport and
that none of it matters and it's super
important as a counterpoint to the
intensity that we we talked about. That
is beautiful. I think about Pale Blue
Dot, Carl Sean's, the whole thing.
>> Just stunning photograph that literally
changed the way I think about who I am
as a person when I saw it. Yeah.
>> Well, going in a completely different
direction with that, Matt, we reached
our very exciting lightning round. We've
got five questions for you. Are you
ready?
>> Okay, here we go. What are two or three
books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people?
>> Uh, okay. Two or three books. You You
give me a heads up on this. So like one
one book is conscious business. I don't
have conscious business in front of me
because it's actually at the office
because we have conscious business
reading club at rippling and every
member of my current my product
leadership team is going through this
right now. Conscious business Fred
Kaufman it's been used in many
businesses LinkedIn most notably as a
framework for thinking about effectively
it's a user manual for human beings. So
if you are a leader, a manager, an
executive, whatever, particularly
younger, like people in their 20s and
30s who are just sort of getting the
hang of being a CEO or a product leader
for the first time, this book is
absolute [__] gold. It was
recommended to me by Brian Shrier at
Sequoia when he was on my board at my
previous company. I took way too long to
take him up on the advice. Wished I had
read it sooner. Highly recommend
conscious business. Changes your life.
Number two, thinking and systems. Donna
Meadows,
I always mispronounce her name. Donella
Meadows. She died partway through
writing this manuscript. Her fellow
professors picked it up and finished it
for her. It is the best generic
framework for thinking about like how
systems work. You will extrapolate from
this book to every aspect of your life
after you read it. Um, and then the
third is classic 1960s the effective
executive. It's an anacronism. It uses
weird pronouns for the secretary and the
executive. I'll let you guess which
ones, but like the book itself is so
chalk full of simple,
enduring advice on how to be effective
at leading teams. And uh the good [__]
is the stuff that's been in print for 70
years and that's that's one of them.
>> Beautiful. I love the first one is you
don't have it because you you're using
it with your team constantly. You you
mentioned at one point uh before we
started recording, you have like eight
copies of that book that you just give
out to everyone.
>> Yeah. And we hand it out like candy.
>> Okay. Is there a favorite recent movie
or TV show you've really enjoyed?
>> Um, yeah. So, I'm a little embarrassed
by this answer, but I'm going to be
honest, please. Um, there's a a new
series called Heated Rivalry, and it's
about I'm Canadian
and I'm gay. So, it's about two hockey
players
um in Canada, rivals between the Bruins
and the Maple Leafs, although they don't
use those names, who are like just
heated rivals on the ice, and it's a
huge thing that the the world is
watching, but actually they're secret
secretly in love with each other, and
they start hooking up. And it's been
labeled by the media as smutty, but
delightful. And uh I would say that's
accurate. So it might not be for
everybody, but it is a it is a smash hit
right now. It's on HBO Max and Crave,
and it's only six episodes, but uh
like I said, a little embarrassing
because it's very uh it's it's a little
chintzy, but it's a lot of fun. It's
also really fun to see like gay people
represented in the media as though
they're normal.
>> And soon to be on Netflix with the
acquisition if that goes through. Oh,
it's crazy.
>> Amazing. Okay. Is there a favorite
product you recently discovered that you
really love?
My fellow coffee maker.
>> I love My fellow coffee maker. It's got
an interface that lets you like set
light, medium, dark roast. It changes
the temperature. It blooms the coffee.
It tells you how many grams of coffee to
put into the basket. Um slick interface,
high quality coffee. It's like it's
definitely awesome. And so I have
actually have one in the office and one
at home and one in the garage.
>> Wow. That is a favorite product. You
have three of them in in the same space.
>> Oh, no. in the office. Okay. Fellow is
also a Ripling customer and that's like
a a nice side effect when we get to
>> Have they ever escalated anything to
you? No. If you're listening and you're
from fellow, I want to hear all your
gripes. Perfect. Two more questions. Do
you have a favorite life motto that you
find yourself coming back to often in
work or in life?
>> It's a dark one and I'll share this one
sort of uh partially for the humor of
it, but it's it's actually sometimes
useful immediately at least. It's sort
of a moment of smiling when it happens.
is like the the the model comes from my
dad who said, "Matt, nothing's ever so
bad in life that it couldn't get worse."
And it's like we were going through some
[__] yesterday at work and we were like,
"Fuck, now that happened." And I looked
at the CTO and I'm like, "Dude,
nothing's ever so bad that it couldn't
get worse." And we had a good laugh and
continued to brace for whatever might
come next. So, not not exactly
uplifting, but fun to use.
>> No, that is it is uplifting. It's an
like I'm an optimist and I find myself
thinking that often with my wife just
like it could be worse. It could be
worse than this.
>> Definitely useful
>> and it might get there. [laughter]
>> So let's enjoy this less worse version.
Uh final question something you shared
with me is that you were a DJ when you
were a younger person. Uh can you just
give us a little uh DJ DJ voice to give
people a sense of
>> so first of all we it's not DJ Lenny.
It's radio personality
>> and yeah, I used to do the greatest hits
of all time with hits from the 60s, the
70s, the 80s, and a little bit of the
'9s. 1015, the Hawk. Yeah, this a you
can turn it on. It's very inauthentic,
but it sounds good on the radio. Uh it's
cool. I did it when I was in high
school. I ended up doing the midday uh
the midday segment when uh right before
I went to college. And what a gift. What
a huge gift in my most formative years
to have developed like uh an ability to
be in front of a microphone comfortably,
you know, because here we are.
>> I love for people that weren't watching
this YouTube, you like lean really close
to the mic to get that to get that uh
radio personality voice.
>> Yeah, you got to be able to hear like
the saliva in the mouth. [laughter]
>> Incredible. It's like the same person
talking. Like if you're not watching
this, you're like, "Where did that guy
come from?" Uh that was great. You
nailed it, Matt. Uh this was incredible.
I really appreciate you being here. I
really appreciate you sharing all this
advice that I have not heard other
people share. Two final questions. What
do you is there some you want to plug
point people to? And how can listeners
be useful to you? Look, my life is
rippling. I point people there. And
that's this is my life's work. It's
going to be uh it's going to be a
banger. So stay tuned. And um and the
way that you can help me is that if
you're a customer, you got to tell me
when you have problems cuz that's how we
get better.
>> What's the way they get to you? Is there
any place you want to point people to?
>> DM me on Twitter is easy9.
You can email me my last name at
rippling.com. Um,
and uh, I'll go that far without giving
out my phone number. How's that?
>> Perfect.
>> The perfect boundary.
>> Yeah,
>> Matt, thank you so much for being here.
>> It's my pleasure. Thank you for having
me, Lenny. And uh, congrats on all the
success with this podcast. It's been
great.
>> Same to you. It's always a good sign at
the end of a conversation. We're like,
"Oh, I got to get me some of that stock
and that got to get into that rippling."
Uh, so
>> it's a good buy recommended buy.
I yeah, but you're, you know, hard to
get to. [laughter]
>> All right, man. Thank you so much.
>> Thanks.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really [music]
helps other listeners find the podcast.
You can find all past episodes or learn
more about the show at
lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.